now to New York where multiple protests
have been held in recent weeks calling
for a ceasefire in Gaza despite many
being organized by Jewish peace
activists protesters have faced
accusations of anti-Semitism on Sunday
human rights activist Cornell West
addressed a crowd in front of the UN he
stressed that support for Palestinians
does not mean hating anyone else and
don't let anybody tell you that because
you love Palestinians and Palestinians
babies that you hate somebody else it
just doesn't follow what our brother we
don't hate Jewish Brothers we don't hate
Jewish sisters we don't hate Jewish
siblings we love we hate a vicious
Israeli
occupation well Cornell West is a
philosopher and political activist also
an independent presidential candidate
for 2024 and he joins us now here on Al
jazer live from New York York good to
have you with us I find it interesting
Cornell that when you say you support
the Palestinians there you felt that you
also had to highlight that it doesn't
mean you hate Jews is the debate so
polarized there that you need to make
that
clarification oh absolutely you see I
myself I come from a great black people
been terrorized traumatized and hated
for 400 years Jews themselves have been
hated terrorized and traumatized for
2,000 years Palestinians have been hated
terrorized and traumatized by Israelis
for 75 years and more so you're dealing
with two groups that have been hated
terrorized and traumatized and you have
to be clear that it's not it has nothing
to do with anti-jewish hatred when you
talk about love of precious Palestinian
brothers and sisters who are undergoing
a b a barbaric genocidal attack and
assault on their bodies on their dignity
on their Humanity
and it's so easy for the Israeli
government it's so easy for right-wing
conservative folk in the American
society and Empire to accuse me and
others of being anti-jewish simply
because we love Palestinians I make that
very clear but it won't stop our
commitment it won't in any way dampen
our fire we want our Palestinian
brothers and sisters to know we care for
you we're concerned about you we're
raising our voices we hit in the streets
we go into jail and if the United States
government that is shot through with its
moral bankruptcy it spiritually OB
spiritual obscenity andal criminality
doesn't hear us then we are going to
oppose our own government what what good
actually at the end of the day does that
do coming out and saying that you
support Palestinians how actually can
you make any changes to the situation
that the G people in Gaza are facing
right
now well one is put pressure so that we
have both a Siege fire
we have an exchange of hostages and
Palestinian political prisoners and
those who are detained in Israeli jails
and then an end of The Siege and the end
of the occupation it gets at the very
source and and core of this whole
situation and in addition to that my
dear s it's also a matter of one's own
personal Integrity how do we live in
such a barbaric world and have some
sense of morality and spirituality how
do we remain committed to Justice and
love not hatred and Revenge but Justice
and love given the overwhelming grimness
of this situation that we see with our
precious Palestinians having to undergo
this kind of barbarity how are you using
your platform now as an independent
presidential candidate to boost your
message well one is we have to shatter
the lies there's been attempts to
rationalize and justify Israeli
occupation Israeli subjugation Israeli
degradation and we have have to be
critical of our Palestinian brothers and
sisters if they're engaging in killing
innocent people those are war crimes I'm
critical of that if they're degrading
Jews if they're anti-jewish I'm critical
of that but I'm keeping track right now
of the structures and the institutions
and as a candidate I want to rise above
the hatred rise above the revenge and
part of the legacy of Martin King and
Fanny L Heyman Rabbi helel and Edward
Zed is what the accent Justice the
accent Justice what does Justice look
like equal dignity equal rights equal
access to resources of Palestinians and
Jews in that region of the world when
you look at the Democratic party right
now what do you see do you see a party
that has these values or do you see the
divisions I'm thinking particularly of
the silencing of Rashida T she's the
only palestinian-american in Congress
and she was silenced recently when she
was trying to speak up on these issues
y i stand with my dear sister Rashida
very much so but no when I look at the
Democratic party I see bankruptcy it's
it's it's ethically bankrupt that it's
willing to enable genocide Israeli
government willing to enact it US
Government willing to enable it we have
to be very very clear we have to be very
very honest we have to be candid and we
have to speak very very fearlessly and
unfortunately we even have a whole wave
of black leaders who are so scared and
intimidated and afraid of ape they're
afraid of the Anti-Defamation League
they're afraid of any kind of pressures
brought to bear on them so that they
don't have their own status where's
their commitment to truth where's their
commitment to Justice what kind of
Integrity do they have can they put a
smile on the face of Martin King and
Malcolm X can they put a smile on the
face of Ella Baker those are the moral
and spiritual standards and I want to be
true to the standards of moral and
spiritual greatness would have to do
with our common Humanity would have to
do with our precious humanity and that's
the challenge right now and this moment
of overwhelming grimness one that you
are rising well to Cornell West many
thanks indeed for taking the time to
join us here on our much